[jazz music]
-[Peter] So JoJo, you grew up in Savannah?
-Absolutely.
-And you went all the way to the NFL.
It really was a dream come true.
I thought I wouldn't play
high school football. [laughs]
-So we're going to get into it today.
From your childhood,
where you grew up here,
the wealthiest hood, to the hood-hood,
and everything in between and…
That's one of the things I pride myself on,
that I have friends
from every category of the city,
every category of this country,
every category of this world.
Like the Most High has
blessed me to live in London.
I've lived in Austria,
Germany, Northern Italy, Holland.
-So that helps you
understand this place better.
-100%.
[Peter] This is a beautiful city.
[JoJo] This is a beautiful street.
You know, one of the pivotal points
in my life, I'm going to show you here,
we used to always go to this library.
And as embarrassing it is to say
as a kid, I hated reading.
But there was a basketball court here.
And I'd like to, you know,
go out and shoot basketball.
I was shooting by myself.
And this strange White guy,
strange to me then, pulls up on me.
He was in this nice new Honda.
And this guy's like,
"Hey, you're really good at basketball.
I am Pastor Dawson from Bible Baptist.
We'd like for you to be interested
in coming to our school."
You know, I'm a public school guy.
We fight at school every day.
You know, what do I look like
going to a private Christian school?
And he meets my mom
and he's telling her about Bible Baptist.
She gets excited.
I had to be 12, going on 13 years old.
That's kind of the turning point in my life
where I kind of veered off with my friends.
And the scariest thing
is during this time,
all of my friends,
they started selling drugs.
Like, we were like a pack of, you know,
five to seven kids
that hung out every day.
We were all like,
"We're not gonna be like these older guys.
We're not gonna sell drugs."
And they were selling crack cocaine.
They were learning
how to sell crack cocaine.
I watched a guy, one of my buddies,
cook cocaine and give it
to one of our older friends.
So if we were 13 and 14,
he gave it to like an 18 year old kid.
And it blew my mind.
This kid, O'Neal, I watched him
smoke crack cocaine for the first time.
He sat there and stared
at the faucet for like 40 minutes.
You know, it's the craziest thing ever.
Again, we just kind of veered away.
That's where our lives changed.
I don't think I had
any control of that, man.
I just always ended up in good situations.
I always found myself in a place where
I landed on my feet, so to speak.
This is an old fire station here.
-And we're not in the downtown area.
The goal was to start out here
away from any tourists.
Everything back that way
is considered downtown.
Everything back this way
is considered not downtown.
-Okay. Yeah,
it gets rougher right off the go.
-Yeah, it gets pretty grimy.
-What's the crime situation
these days in Savannah?
-It's really, really bad.
-Really, really bad?
You know why it is?
I had to think about it
after I talked to you for the first time.
-Yeah.
-I'm like, why is the crime so bad?
Because let's say you're in Atlanta,
and you've got like five different boroughs
and you run into someone
and you have a problem,
and you may not ever see him again.
But Savannah, man, it's so small.
You're gonna see that guy
or that problem next weekend.
And that beef,
that situation, never goes anywhere.
People don't know
how to talk to each other.
-Yeah.
And Peter, one of the worst things,
the scariest things
that are happening to our community
is this music, man, this drill music.
You can't, not even on the radio,
you can't turn on a radio,
and the radio isn't saying,
"Kill that n*gga."
-So drill music is on the radio?
Yeah, drill music
is on the radio indirectly.
-You know what I mean?
-Right.
It's on the radio.
-So just bad messaging.
-Yeah.
The days of,
"Hey, let's join forces and let's
be friends and let's love each other."
It's just not happening anymore.
See, this is one block away
from where we started.
So this city just
totally changes block to block.
Man, yeah, pretty much.
-It's like New Orleans a bit in that sense.
-There you go.
And that's happening as, you know,
some rich White company comes in
and buys up a row of houses.
Like, I'm going to show you this place.
It scares me to go by it.
And I will never
drive through here at night.
We could come back through
at night if you want to.
-So a lot of boarded up stuff.
-Man, this is like Beirut
or something, man, like it is
scary, scary, scary.
And you see,
I think it's a little bit early
for some of the zombies to be out.
But people are living in there.
-People are in there.
-Really?
In an hour or so, they will be
coming out of there
and they'll be standing out here
looking for money or drugs or both.
-Yeah, nobody's on the street.
No, it's still a little bit early.
This is a very drug infested area.
-Okay.
-And…
So you grew up
in the rough part of town, right?
Yeah. This is 38th Street.
I grew up on… On 36th.
-But there's some rebuilding,
as you can see there.
Correct. Rebuild happens,
but our people aren't benefiting this.
They're not gonna be moving back in here.
-So this is getting gentrified.
This is going to get bought up
on the cheap, rebuilt.
Absolutely. Absolutely.
And then who's moving in?
That guy who sold his house for $800,000.
He sold his 1,000-foot condo
for $800,000 in New York.
So he'll come back down here
and buy this for $200,000 and…
Or maybe buy a couple of 'em
and just win, win, win.
-Okay. Do you feel like
gentrification's a double-edged sword
because, look,
if there's a lot of drugs and crime,
it's going to probably get rid of
some of that, make it look better.
Yeah.
But then it gets too expensive
where people can't live.
Yeah, 'cause I'm proud of my city,
and I get sick of seeing it look
as bad as it does.
-So you're conflicted a little bit,
JoJo, maybe.
-Right. Right.
[Peter] So these are all new builds.
That's like remodels.
-Yeah. And that's the thing, though,
come to Savannah,
find you a nice two-story build house.
Spend $150,000, spend $80,000,
because you could never get this
in New Jersey, New Hampshire, you know.
-Okay, so you're getting
Northerners moving down here.
-Absolutely.
You get the SCAD kids,
Savannah College of Art and Design.
We're gonna cruise by that?
-That's a big deal here.
-Absolutely. It's the biggest deal.
The biggest deal. Okay.
And they're monopolizing
on all of the buildings.
-Okay, so you're thinking maybe, JoJo,
in five years, this is a new home.
Right here, a refurbished home,
and this is all changed.
-Five years, bro, next year.
-Next year.
-So it's happening quickly right now?
-Yep. Yep.
[Peter] So where are all the people
that live here now going to go?
-They probably move them to the South Side.
They'll build apartments
that are barely affordable.
I kind of consider it like this.
If you make $40,000 today,
and you've got to pay
a $1,500 a month apartment bill,
a car note, car insurance,
you don't even… you barely break even.
And it's the way the system is set up.
Like, you're still, when I say in slavery,
not in shackles or anything,
but you're still
bound in a place
where you can only
have enough to live.
You can only have enough to eat.
You can only…
-Hamster wheel.
-Absolutely.
And it doesn't get any better.
You can't travel. You can't vacation.
And it gets worse
because in this neighborhood,
most people are like,
"Man, I want more. I need more.
Let me sell this drug."
-Okay.
-"Let me knock over this liquor store."
So that gets really enticing,
you're saying?
-Yeah. Absolutely.
-Okay.
I used to make fun of people
that would like
take their money
during the week and they'll go and
say, you made $500 this week
and you'll spend
250 bucks on an outfit, a hairdo.
People would rent cars
that they didn't own.
I promise you,
people would rent a car,
put rims on the car that they don't own,
put tint on it for the weekend.
And I'm like, that's the most
ignorant sh*t I've ever heard in my life.
But at the same time,
it's your only chance to live.
To have any kind of fun, you know?
-Yeah. But then there's like a…
-It's stupid. Don't get me wrong.
-It's stupid. And like,
if your worth is your exterior shell
and what you present
to the world like that,
then that's sort of sad in itself.
Yeah.
I've been broke multiple times
in my life and I don't know.
I don't look at it as my clothes
or my car to be who I am.
-Right.
-So…
It's a way of looking at things.
But again, some people,
that's all they have.
They can never show.
You don't have any education, you know?
-Right.
-"Savannah affordable housing."
-So some affordable housing coming in.
-Mm-hmm.
[Peter] This is not
your average Savannah video
because not far away is where
it's just like perfect… almost looking.
What's up, brother?
Man, my partner over here
doing a little documentary.
-You got a second for me?
-Yeah.
All right. We'll pull up.
[Peter] Are these your
old guys from the day?
Man, this dude raised me.
This dude raised me.
How you doing, Peter? Nice to meet you.
-This is Peter Santenello, man.
-All right, Pete.
-Yeah. Nice to meet you. All right.
So you got JoJo stories.
So no, no.
So he ain't gonna remember this, right?
But he'd always give me money
to go to the store
and he'd always f*ck with me
all the time and be like,
"I'm gonna date your mom."
He'd mess with me. I get all mad.
But I get mad at him that he give me
a dollar to go to the store, right?
So one day I'm at home
and I'm getting dressed
and my mom looks into my clothes.
She's like, "Where your underwear?"
And I'm like,
"What do you mean where my underwear?
Mama, you know, pimps don't wear drawers."
She said, "Where you learn that from?"
I said, "Michael Holmes."
Michael Holmes told me
pimps don't wear drawers.
So I so I used to walk around
every day with no underwear on
thinking if I was
going to be a cool pimp
because of him,
I have no underwear on ever. [laughs]
So the bigger question,
did you ever go on a date with his mom?
No. I knew his mom,
but I'd call him my son.
[laughter]
[Peter] What was it like
back in the day, guys?
-Back in childhood here?
-It was less dangerous.
-Less dangerous?
-Way less dangerous.
So how is it now? It's pretty bad?
-It's not that bad.
-It's not that bad?
It's not that bad,
but you can see the tension rising.
Well, it's not that bad
because y'all are
a core group of people
that know each other
and grew up each other.
But at the same time, we got to admit
two of our best people that we knew…
I don't know if
y'all want me to mention it
but shot the man to death right here.
We don't want to get into that
because it's more to it than what.
Right, right, right.
You know,
we knew each other.
It happened,
but a lot of people don't know the reason.
That's what I'm saying. What brings you
to a point where, you know what I mean?
Where you would want to hurt me
and I would want to hurt you.
I've known you since
I was a little boy, man.
You know what I mean?
And so today, them two.
They knew each other
since they were little boys, man.
Young men.
All right.
You come in the house.
-Right. You come in your house…
-Right, right. And it's there.
-I'm there. Yeah.
But B Smooth was doing so good, man.
He was, you know…
Everybody been doing good.
We're doing good now.
Yeah.
-You guys, you guys worry about
these places being bought up?
Like the spillover from downtown?
That's what JoJo is telling me.
Our neighborhood gone now.
SCAD done bought everything.
They started with one school.
See,
you'll keep hearing that all day long.
SCAD started with one school
on Henry Street.
Mm-hmm.
SCAD ain't through with us yet.
-What would you want to say to them?
Um,
SCAD, make some affordable houses
for the African-Americans in Savannah.
We was here before y'all.
Now we got our rent up
to $1,500, $1,200.
-Your rent's $1,500?
-$1,500.
How many bedrooms?
-One.
-Seriously?
Like a one bedroom here is $1,500?
Um, this a three and this is a two.
These are like $1,700, $1,900.
-Really?
-Right.
We grew up in these houses
for $375 a month.
-Exactly. Hallelujah.
$275 a month.
We get paid seven dollars and fifty cent
an hour for labor.
-Where do you work?
I don't work,
but the minimum wage is…
-$7.50?
-It's $7.50.
I'm too old to work.
Now I'm 66, right?
-Oh, you're a spring chicken, come on.
-[laughs]
Hey, Jojo and I shop at the same place.
-That's right.
They've been calling us
the black brothers all morning.
Jojo's got black head to toe and me too.
-I'll take your hand-me-down.
I'm telling you, man, you better be glad,
'cause he knows I don't play that.
If my knee wasn't hurting, man,
I'd be smoking your a** right now.
[Peter] You wanna race? I'll race you.
I'll race you right now.
-Let's do it.
-I'll hold the camera.
Peter's gonna represent me.
-[Peter] I haven't run forever.
-I don't wanna hear it!
-[laughter]
-[Peter] Why are you running away from me?
-No, he's lining up.
Cigarette in his head, Peter.
This has got to go down. It'll be beautiful
if you beat him with your cigarette.
Let's get down here.
From the pole, Peter.
-We'll go to the pole and race here.
[JoJo] 66 years old, Michael Holmes.
-Umar. The Mighty Umar.
-The Mighty Umar.
Oh, my God.
This is about to be bad, Peter, if you lose
to this old-a** man. [giggles]
Hey, the ambulance is that way, okay?
[Peter] Where's the finish line?
-To me… Peter.
-So we're doing a short sprint?
-I'm 66. I can't do no mile.
How old are you, Peter?
-I haven't run in years.
Yeah, you gotta do it with the stick.
Okay, what are you do? A three, two, one?
-Yeah, Peter, you end up on this side.
Mike, you end up on this side.
On go.
Ready, set, go!
Oh, my God.
-Come on! Aah!
-Oh, my God!
[JoJo laughs]
Man, you had him though.
I threw a rod!
All right, Peter.
[JoJo] And see this is how
gentrification happens. [laughs]
Hey, I was impressed for the moment, man.
You had me for a bit.
With a cigarette in his hand.
Racing in my behalf at this point.
-Yeah, that was for JoJo.
-Peter. You blew my dog gone rod.
-That was good.
We'll try next year, huh?
You threw my rod.
Oh, you want to race me again when I'm 67?
Yeah, yeah, yeah.
[laughter]
That was fun, JoJo.
So we go to your mom and house,
and then I think we get into downtown.
I feel like I could make
a whole video out here all day.
This is interesting.
It's cool hanging out with
the guys you grew up with, right?
What's good is
I have to show my face around here.
And people a lot of times
recognize you from your car.
-I'm using Hunchman's car today.
-Your buddy's car.
Well, I crashed my car
and then I got another
and I don't know,
the engine like went on it.
People will like…
"Oh man, JoJo, you don't come by
and you don't say hello."
We don't see you anymore.
And they will disown you, you know?
Because you made it big time.
Right, right.
So I'm sure there's always envy, right?
Yeah, they expect you
to come and give money.
I was never rich.
I never made a lot of money.
In the NFL, you didn't make money?
No, I mean, I made the league minimum.
You know, and again, this was 1995.
-Okay.
-So today that money is like, you know…
-Short lived, right?
-Absolutely, absolutely.
So a lot of these football players
go broke, right? I've heard of that.
Absolutely.
'Cause what's the average season?
Like four or five years?
Man, you want to put on this show
that you have money
and you buy a car that you can't afford.
-Right.
-And I'll never forget.
this guy Ray Lee Johnson
at the San Diego Chargers.
He was my locker next to me
and his agent comes in,
"Ray Lee, good news, man.
You made a million dollars last year.
So the bad news is you spent 1.2."
So it's like his first year in the NFL
and he's $200,000 in the hole.
He lost money by going to the NFL.
-Absolutely.
-Wow.
-So there's a lot of that happening?
-Yeah.
Doesn't the NFL have some sort of guidance,
like some financial consultant
that jumps in in the early career
to be like, hey…
They'll advise you,
but you don't really get a pension
unless you've played four years.
And a lot of guys don't get there,
especially running backs.
Most people get injured.
-So this is the house you grew up in?
-Yes.
My aunt owned this house and I bought it
from her recently over the years.
We're going to meet JoJo's mother,
who I believe grew up in Savannah.
She's got some old stories.
So it all started here, JoJo?
-Yes.
-What's the dog's name?
-Jax.
-Jax is a mini-doodle.
She wasn't supposed to even get that big.
-She's a cutie.
This is my mom and my dad's
picture back in the day before all of us.
This is my son Jagger, my daughter Axel.
Look at this artistry I got in Ghana.
I spent like 10 bucks for it.
-That's cool.
-[Jax barking]
Hey Jax, nobody's gonna record you.
[Peter] I just did
a running race on JoJo's behalf.
-Guess who he raced, mama?
-I raced.
Remember Michael Holmes?
He was on camera telling Peter
that he used to have a crush on you.
[laughter]
-He had a crush on you,
then he said he wanted to race,
and then I raced him.
Peter ends up racing the guy.
He's 66. He's 12 years younger.
Yeah.
You're styling. You're styling.
I mean, it's understandable.
-How you feeling?
-Hey, how are you?
[Peter] Okay, so you have deep roots here?
Yeah, because basically this was
more the African American community
back to like the 1880s than even before.
But it's odd in a way,
it was a mixed neighborhood
of Jewish and African American people.
-Did you guys get along?
Yeah, yeah.
A lot of the Jewish were tradesmen.
They had stores. And many of them,
I guess just starting out,
they lived above their stores.
So they were like little grocery stores.
-So that's what it was around here?
-Mm-hmm.
And then you did have your other
smaller Black businesses, mechanics.
So what you saw here were professionals,
teachers, doctors, lawyers,
tradesmen,
contractors.
There were three
Black Catholic parishes during integration.
It was known as
the most integrated city
because you could have
a street like this that was all White,
but in the lanes lived Black peoples.
So it was like White, Black,
White, Black, White, Black.
The Charity Hospital was the first hospital
where Black doctors could practice.
This was, again,
around the turn of the century.
Two African American doctors
came to Savannah, started a nursing school
that eventually became a hospital.
There was a hospital,
Georgia Infirmary,
where Black people could go,
but Black doctors
could not come in and practice.
How do you feel race relations are now
White and Black here in the city?
I…
I don't think it's as good as it was.
-Really?
-Yeah.
When was it the best,
do you think, in your lifetime?
I think when everyone
had an understanding of who was who.
Okay. What years would those be, though?
I would say…
maybe up to…
maybe '70.
-'70s, okay, interesting.
-Yeah.
And see, this street ran
like five more houses on this block.
Okay.
They built this expressway
and basically built it
straight through the neighborhood.
It took like five houses,
went through 37th Street,
which was family homes, professionals.
And so you could sit on the porch
and see the kids come
from the smaller rural towns,
come down 16,
hit the corner up here,
and you could see them
go back up in ten minutes.
They started coming into
the community to buy drugs.
And…
-Okay.
And what's it like now,
from all your years here?
Well, in the big drug era,
you see the big cars and the jewelry.
Now it's more about
violence and gangs.
You shoot at me on this side of town,
then I'll go on the east side of town
and I'll shoot you.
And this is a very neighborhood city.
So you're from West Savannah,
you're from Cuyler-Brownsville,
you're from the East Side.
-Okay.
-You know, that kind of thing.
But then it really came in
and destroyed the neighborhood.
But the city of Savannah,
they worked very hard.
They worked very hard with their citizens.
-You see these style of houses here.
-Mm-hmm.
There was a big production of
bringing in homes that people could buy.
You know, that's a big conversation now.
-Okay.
-About corporate folks.
Yeah.
You know, coming in
buying 20 or 30 houses at a time.
And so, we're dispersed.
Right.
So everyone's got a price
with their house too.
If someone gave you $5 million,
you're moving tomorrow, right?
Yeah.
And when they call me, they call me.
They do call you?
Oh, every day, all day long.
-Seriously? Really?
-10:00 at night.
Can we go back?
All the neighbors talk about it.
What are they offering right now?
No, they ask me what I want.
So I'll say $500,000.
Then they'll hang up. [giggles]
But there are houses in the neighborhood
that are worth close to a million.
-Okay.
But it's like the same style house.
They just go in, clean them up.
Yeah.
How you doing? Good. Do you live here?
No, I lived here for a while,
but not anymore.
-Okay. Peter.
-Jeremy, Nice to meet you.
-Nice to meet you.
How you doing, young man?
-Thank you. She styles, huh?
-I know, right?
I love it. What's that type of hat called?
This is like a hat from the '30s.
This is like a cloche.
A French word, C-L-O-C-H-E?
The men wear like a baller hat,
I think it was called.
-Bowler.
-Bowler. Yeah.
You're saying church attendance is down.
I can see that here.
Well, it was a Catholic church
for 100 years.
Like with all churches,
the population is diminishing.
So they joined this church
with a church in another neighborhood.
They sold it a few years ago
to a Baptist congregation.
And they stayed there as
long as they could,
but COVID really killed it
with people coming, you know,
or not coming, rather.
And now it is owned by Muslims.
So…
-It's going to turn into a mosque?
I doubt. I don't know.
It's only been, what,
four or five months? Yeah.
The Spanish
started coming into this country
before Savannah English.
So Savannah was put in place
to stop the Spanish at the border.
-Coming up from Florida?
-Coming up from Florida.
Like there are areas going south in Georgia
that are called St. Mary's.
They have more, you know,
Roman language names.
So General Oglethorpe came
and he was assigned to here.
And he brought people
from the debtor's prisons in England.
-You know what debtor's prisons are?
-No.
You know, there was a time that
if you couldn't pay your debts,
they'd put you in jail.
-Oh, okay. Debtor prison. Got you.
-Yeah.
-That's how it started? One of the reasons?
Okay.
And they came in, made friends with the
Yamacraw Indians that lived at the river.
Yeah.
Yamacraws are basically Cherokees.
What was this, the first laid out city
in the United States?
-It's a master design. Master plan.
-Yeah.
-Yeah, the square.
-And with a lot of parks.
-A lot of little squares and parks.
-But it was mostly for protection.
-Military protection. Yeah.
-Oh, that's the reason.
You used to see a lot of the Indigenous
people, but you don't see them
like you used to before.
The Ogeechee Road is where
the Cherokee and the Yamacraws,
where you see these folks going,
ran from the Ogeechee River
to the Savannah River.
So they would walk it
from one part of the area
to the Savannah River.
So you'll find people that are
you name it, we got it.
Like myself, I'm probably Cherokee, French,
Scottish, of course African American,
Irish, you know.
-Cherokee, French, Scottish?
-African American.
-Yeah.
It's a mix of my mom and dad's family.
-Wow. That's a mix.
[siren blares in the distance]
This is a house that I rent,
usually to people that I know.
Usually that are people
that can't get a lease anywhere.
A lot of times, Peter, too,
my friends and family
that are, like, been in jail.
One of the hardest things to do
is to find a place to stay,
to find a lease,
to find somebody that will
trust you to rent.
This was my office at some point.
Recently I had to bring a bed in
for someone to have a place to stay.
This is my wall of fame, man.
My sister made this, created this
for me some years ago.
-There you are in the Chargers Jersey.
-Yeah, man.
I'll never forget that play.
I hurt my shoulder or whatever.
But this is my team in Northern Italy,
in Trieste, Italy.
-Oh, that's cool.
-This is me coaching in Holland.
This is me playing in Italy.
This is one of the other
running backs at the Chargers.
Look how much bigger
he was than I am.
This is an interview
that I did with them just saying
how impossible for me
to make it through the NFL.
[announcer] …the wide receiver
and the quarterback.
Joe, Joe Jones.
[John Madden] I went to practice
and I watched him down in training camp.
He was the star of the practice.
They couldn't touch him.
He broke Walter Payton's NAIA record.
Walter Payton had 66. He had 68.
This is the article where I broke
Walter Payton's all-time touchdown record.
-Seriously?
-Yeah. Yeah.
He held the record for like 20 years.
I ended up breaking it.
This is my autographed picture
from Walter Payton.
He calls me and I go,
this ain't no damn Walter Payton.
And I hang up the phone.
He calls me right back. It was pretty cool.
How was that getting on the Chargers?
What was that feeling like?
It was surreal. It really was like…
Again, even when they called and said,
"Hey, we got an airline ticket for you."
I thought it was one of my college buddies.
"Hey, it's the Tampa Bay Jalopies.
We want you to hike the ball
and kick it at the same time."
They were just pranking me and whatnot.
And I just thought it wasn't real
until I actually got there. You know?
-Wow.
This is me playing in Austria.
Playing in Europe
was probably the best for me
because it wasn't
so much pressure and stress.
Again, you could tell how much
smaller I was than everyone else.
But playing in Europe just allowed me
to have fun playing football again.
-The NFL life is very stressful, right?
-Yes. It's a business.
'Cause you're on
the chopping block at all times.
-Any time.
-If you don't perform, then…
-There you go. You're out of there.
-You're out.
You are out of there.
This is my mini-me.
We make life-like figurines of real people.
-No way. So someone orders one
of these and they…
-Yeah.
-How do they do it?
Go to www.3Dwithatwist.com
and it's a little bit more expensive
when you can't be there in person.
But we do a 360 video view
or you can do it with your iPhone.
-Okay.
And we take a front, back,
side to side, of your closest pictures,
and you send that to us and 10 to 12 days
right at your doorstep. Without a doubt.
And all from a former NFL player.
There you go. [chuckles]
-So it's not all perhaps
what it's cracked up to be for everyone.
It's a lot of pressure, lot of stress.
Yeah. You know,
somebody said to me the other day,
and that's just life in general, man,
life keeps lifing, you know?
And you even mentioned like, man,
I've been broke a few times in my life.
-Sure.
-I think that's good for people to hear.
Because today with our young kids,
there's so much stress
about making money,
and being successful, and driving this car.
That's… I'll be the first person
to tell anyone, man,
the saddest times of my life
is when I had the biggest bank account.
And the happiest times are
when I was eight years old
and our lights were turned off.
You know, that's… I just…
-That's my memory. That's my experience.
-Mm-hmm.
So…
Life keeps lifing.
You never get to a point.
'Cause it's like whack-a-mole.
You think everything's set up and
something's gonna come out of nowhere.
Life always continues to happen.
Something negative
is always going to happen.
Sometimes our egos get in the way
and a lot of times,
you know God,
and whoever that power may be will
sit you down.
-Right. You can either
learn from it or fight it.
And if you fight it,
it's going to come at you harder.
There you go.
You got to change it is what you got to do.
You know, my dad, he wasn't around.
He lived like a mile away.
-But he wasn't around.
-Okay.
I always kind of get choked up
when I think about this.
But I had this really, like,
-harsh feelings about him for a long time.
-I bet.
And my dad was my football coach.
He didn't realize what a good
football player I was or whatever,
But he would take other kids home
and not take me home.
-You know what I mean?
-Oh, man.
I went to therapy, you know.
And if you don't know anything about,
our culture, our community, man.
-We don't go to therapy.
-You don’t?
Black people are not known
to go to therapy.
Talk to your grandmother.
I don't know.
But I went to therapy, man.
And this lady puts me in this…
This cold room and I'm on this chair,
this East Indian girl, you know.
I'm like, "What does she know?
How's she gonna help me?"
is what I'm saying to myself.
And she's, I'm laying there and
I almost I almost fall asleep.
I thought she hypnotized me,
but she really didn't.
And she comes in the room
about 30 minutes later
and she's just asking me
all these questions.
And she's like, I think she hypnotized me,
but I can feel myself, you know.
She's like, "JoJo, where are you?"
And I'm like,
"I'm in a field." you know.
And she's like,
"Where are you more specifically?"
I said, I'm at Forsyth Park.
She's like, "What are you doing?"
I said, "I'm just standing there."
She says, "Who's there with you?"
I said, "Nobody." She says, "Look closer."
And the craziest thing, Peter,
it was my dad there.
And the reason I knew he was there,
I could smell his Cologne.
I could smell the jewelry that he wore.
He wore these green stones
and these medals on his rings.
I could smell the Jerry curl juice.
You know what I mean?
All this stuff was there.
And she's like, what's your dad doing?
I said, he's talking to people.
He's giving out football instructions.
And she's like, what else is he doing?
I said, he's ignoring me.
And I'm like, wow. Kind of teared me up.
Yeah.
So afterwards, she asked me
a lot of more questions.
And she goes on to say,
"How long has your dad
been coaching football?"
I said about 30 years.
He started this organization
called the Forsyth Flames.
And so much violence going on in this area.
So anyway…
-Right now?
-Yeah.
Recently somebody was shooting
at each other and knocked the wall down.
-Oh, really?
-Yeah.
And it's like the third time
they put the wall up
for somebody knocking it over.
But anyway,
she's like, how many times
after 30 years of your dad coaching
football have people walked up to you
and said, your dad saved my life?
Or your dad kept me out of prison?
Or your dad was the reason
I'm a good…
[sobs] A good father?
And I said, a thousand times.
And she said, even if your dad
didn't reach your expectations,
but look how many other people he helped.
And that helped me so much, Peter.
-Oh, really?
-Yeah. Get over that.
Because, I mean,
I've ruined a lot of good relationships
because of the way I felt
like my dad treated me.
Especially when it comes to your wife.
-You know, that kind of thing.
-Okay.
So, you know, it always, you know…
Are you married, JoJo?
No, I was married recently.
-I'm sorry.
-It's about two years now.
Recently divorced.
But, you know, good woman.
The whole nine yards.
It's always my fault. [chuckles]
It's always my fault.
So, this is that park. Okay.
-Can we go around the park here?
-Absolutely.
This is the most beautiful park, man,
in the city, without a doubt.
-Most beautiful park in the city.
-Forsyth Park.
Until my injury,
I was playing basketball there every day.
The park is a perfect one mile around.
And in the heat of the summer,
you're always shaded, you know.
You'll see the SCAD kids
coming through here all day long,
back and forth to class.
-Okay, so it goes student pretty quickly.
-Yeah, really quickly.
Absolutely.
This is not that far
from your neighborhood.
No, everything is within proximity, man.
-Totally changes.
-Yeah.
[JoJo] And they go out of their way
to make sure the park is kept
up to par and…
-Yeah, this is nice.
So, that's crazy. I mean,
that wall that just got
shot down multiple times
is literally a half mile from this.
-Yep.
-You see that tree? Is that crazy or what?
-Oh, that tree is stunning.
-Look at that beauty.
-Looks like something out of Avatar, man.
Yeah.
So, like all my videos, when I'm meeting
with someone to show their city,
I'm going through their perspective.
I'll push back on questions. I try to get
as much information as possible.
So, do you feel like it's a consensus
with this SCAD topic?
I'm sure you talk to other people,
they love it
because it's brought so much amazingness
to the city too, right? Or like…
-When it comes to Savannah, yes.
When it comes to the city,
they're the biggest beautifier,
and they're the biggest adversary.
This is Jones Street.
-Is this one of the famous streets?
-Yes.
Really interesting feel.
It's like nothing I've experienced before.
-It's got a little bit of Northeast to it.
-Mm-hmm.
Like some of these
brick buildings with shutters
and then you have the oaks.
It's a different world
with a Southern feel.
-I don't know how to explain it.
-Absolutely.
This is awesome though.
[Peter] So you have the college here.
Big art and design and it's well-known.
It's attracting people
from all over the country and the world.
You have a lot of tourists coming
for this stuff 'cause it's walkable.
And then we're going to cruise by it soon,
but I did some research.
The port here is
one of the biggest ports in the country.
I had no idea that existed.
-Yeah.
-Absolutely.
So you have like these three
sort of pillars of the economy.
There you go.
Then a military base
outside of the city somewhere.
We have Hunter Army Airfield
and we have Hinesville,
then we have Buford.
So here's the tourist class
most likely, right?
-They look like tourists.
-Yeah.
I'd look it up. I want to say
it's like the third or the fourth
most visited city in the country.
-I didn't know that. This is my first time.
-Yeah.
I was in Hamburg, Germany,
and this guy was like, Savannah, Georgia.
It's our dream vacation, me and my wife.
-Oh, no way.
-Yeah.
[JoJo] This is a cool area right here.
You're going to want this statue here.
See, these are Black soldiers
that were getting an opportunity
to fight in the Confederate War.
-Right. And a lot of people
don't know that too, right?
Blacks were fighting
in the Confederate Army.
-Front line. [chuckles]
-Yeah.
[JoJo] Man, this dude here
has a great story, man.
I don't want to kind of put him on blast,
but this guy here, Vernon.
-Oh, he wants to talk. He was waving.
Been to prison, changed his life.
Hey, Vernon.
You want to chat
with JoJo and I for a second?
[JoJo laughs]
We'll meet you right up here.
Oh, man. He's like…
[laughs]
You saw me backing up so you couldn't see.
-We definitely can chat.
-You thought I was like a cop or something?
[JoJo] Oh, heck yeah.
Vernon, JoJo and I
are making a video about Savannah
getting his take on things.
He said you're a legend. You're the dude.
I'm not a legend in Savannah.
I'm from California.
[laughing] Let me feel your heart.
"Hey, Vernon." Government?
-Did you think I was a parole officer?
-I'm far removed from that.
I was just telling him
Vernon's changed his life, man.
-He said hero story.
-Yeah.
Do you want to share?
I always love the hero story.
People that turned their life around.
Yeah. No problem.
-Currently, I'm…
-I was looking at that, baby. Okay.
Currently, I'm just made 25 years.
Worked for local government.
You know, 49 years old.
I'm originally from California.
I joined a gang at the age of 12.
-[Peter] Wow.
-[JoJo] I didn't know that.
Bloods? Crips?
Bloods. In real Blood gang.
San Diego, California.
And from there,
I had a friend named Odie Cat
that turned me on to PCP.
And that took me on the spiral
from about 13 to about 17.
But I come from a good background.
My mom was an educator,
my father retired at an E-9 in the Navy.
Okay.
So that's why we were in San Diego.
My sister, she was born in Italy,
so we lived in Naples, Italy
for eight years.
-That's where my family's from.
-Oh, Naples?
-Originally, yeah.
-Yeah, yeah, yeah.
We lived there for eight years and then
we went to Okinawa, Japan for a year.
Nice.
Then back to California.
-And I think what happened was…
-[JoJo] I didn't know none of this.
Yeah. My mom and my daddy
got a divorce at 12.
And that was a…
a vital time that I needed them in my life.
-Yep.
But he had to do… He had his own journey.
So with that being said, my mom, she was
a military wife, so she didn't work.
So when they got a divorce, she had to
try to go back to school, find a job.
Which left me looking over my sister.
And I first started out
and met a dude named Duty.
And Duty was in
an apartment complex called Bay Vista.
Bay Vista Apartments. Still there.
A famous rapper, his name is Missy Slick.
He's from that area.
The gang there was Lincoln Park.
But long story short,
I made my first $50 a day
by just holding a walkie-talkie,
when the police come through,
let them know.
Just scouting?
And what I learned about gangs…
Originally gangs were…
the first generation of gangs
came after the Black Panther Party.
So once they dismantled
the Black Panther Party,
they became Bloods and Crips but they were
there just to police the neighborhood.
[JoJo] That's right.
Make sure if someone got pulled over
they would just come, stand,
make sure they weren't harassed.
But in '85,
came crack cocaine,
Reagan era,
and there were dropping guns
in the neighborhood.
[JoJo] Mm-hmm. Heard that.
With that being said,
you got a lot of people in poverty.
Now it's a way that you can go from
sleeping on the street
to now being a thousandaire.
-Yeah.
If you really hustle, a millionaire.
But they're not understanding that
you're poisoning your own community.
-'Cause it's about proximity.
-That's right.
So you feed on what's closest to you.
What I learned about gangs,
when I went to prison in '97,
and I got out in '99,
and that's when I moved here.
But when I was in prison,
I found out it was predator and prey.
-When I learned that was a lot of…
-Oh, yeah.
A lot of older gentlemen
who threw their lives away,
That's impressionable,
because we hearing these stories about you.
And the hard part is…
'Cause I deal with the youth at my church.
If you have Mr. Johnson
that lives in the project
but then you have Earl, the dope man
that lives in the project.
Mr. Johnson goes to work every day.
Let's say he works for
the HOG.
He's coming home dirty.
-Port system.
-Mm-hmm.
-Okay.
He's coming home dirty,
but he lives in the same project
that everyone else lives in.
But Earl, he has the rims,
the cars, the girls respect him.
Even the elderly people respect him,
because he's maybe paying their rent.
-He's maybe helping with grocery.
-Okay.
But once again, predator and prey.
I paid your rent for a year.
I have five pounds of weed.
-I have to leave this in your house.
-[JoJo] That's right.
Oh, right, right, right.
So it seems like it's Robin Hood.
-Nothing's for free. Yeah.
-But nothing's for free.
It's a business model.
It's like in everything else.
I don't know if you ever heard of
James Allen, but James Allen
was the first Black slave in South Carolina
that bought his freedom.
And then he started a plantation.
And the legend is,
is that he had worse practices
than the White slave owners.
Because he bought into the business model.
-Right.
So like today, modern day slavery,
my name is Vernon Frazier.
But why do I need an employee number?
Product.
-What are you doing now?
Right now I'm the manager
of administrative services,
which in my department,
I have a distribution system,
supply all packages within the county,
also the mail service.
So we're kind of like
the United States Postal Service
for Chatham County in local government.
-Cool. Honest work though, right?
-Yes, definitely.
Doesn't that feel different,
doing honest work?
It's the greatest thing ever.
I mean, you're the only judge of yourself.
-God is.
-There you go.
-But you can sleep well at night.
And I'm glad you brought up the Lord.
That's what changed my life.
When I got out of prison at the end of '98,
I was on my way here
and I rode a Greyhound bus,
and I had one layover in El Paso.
And I remember I had one sherm stick left.
And I went to the bathroom,
and I was going to smoke it but…
I don't know if you ever felt
the presence of the Holy Spirit
but in that moment, he rained down on me,
and I got on my knees, and I told him,
"If you get me here to Savannah,
it will change my life."
And I got here,
and my mom, she was working at
Chatham County in state court.
So they had a second chance program,
which I was able to be a part of.
And then I just took advantage of it.
So I met this nice guy named Cedric Rouse,
who's my boss now, he's my director.
And he told me
if I really wanted to change my life
to come on my lunch break
for three months straight,
and he'll teach me data entry
and things of that nature.
I did so.
-So that second chance program
was huge in your life?
It was the greatest
thing that ever happened.
Well, the greatest program was
finding my Lord and Savior, Jesus Christ.
-A lot of people don't think
they have the power within themselves.
And so you found God.
That gave you the ability to see
that you have the power in yourself.
Yes, sir.
-But a lot of young people make mistakes.
They don't think they have the power,
like the agency in their hand
to make something out of their life.
Any words for that?
They need identity and a support system.
And what I mean
by identity is if all your life
someone was telling you
you're not going to be anything,
what does that say to your belief system?
-There's no way you're going anywhere.
It's like anything, man.
Words are powerful.
What you constantly tell yourself,
your inner speakings with yourself,
it shapes your reality.
If you wake up in the morning and say
it's gonna be a horrible day,
guess what it's going to be?
A horrible day.
You don't have horrible days,
you may have bad moments.
What do you do? What's your strategy?
If you're feeling bad in the morning?
I journal.
You journal. Nice.
So in my journal
I can always look back 2012
when I thought that day
was the last day of my life.
and now I'm in 2026 and I say,
hey, if I thought this was it…
-…this ain't nothing but a stepping stone.
-Right.
So I'll tell anyone, man,
every day that you wake up
just put your best foot forward.
Don't think about your past.
Don't think about your future.
Stay in the moment.
Be present right now at this day and time.
And love yourself.
This guy could have easily been me.
I could have easily been him.
-Yes sir.
-Really though.
We're probably in San Diego
at the same time.
That's what I'm telling you.
[Peter] Downtown Savannah.
Jojo is saying
he's doing his thing for a bit there.
What it has is a bunch of these squares.
If you look at Google Maps,
there are a lot of these small squares.
It'll be like square,
couple of streets, buildings, next square.
And that was the master design of the city,
which makes it highly walkable.
Very much enjoyable to be a tourist in.
Just one of these places.
So many American cities don't have that.
Sit on a park bench under a tree
and read a book like this woman.
But this place definitely has that feel.
All right.
So where are we off to next?
-We're going to head
across this light to River Street.
This is a new nice area.
It kind of puts you in the mind of Vegas.
Like people have never
seen anything like this.
You know, you've got SCAD here.
These are all SCAD buildings.
-Still?
-Yeah.
Wow.
-Then you have the projects
right next to it.
-Really?
-This guy, Kessler,
this philanthropist, he's rich.
So he builds these three hotels together.
He calls it the Kessler Collection.
One has a music theme, one has an
art theme, one has a crystal theme.
But what's crazy is
it's open to the public.
-These hotels are all new here?
-Yeah.
Within the last, what, ten years?
No, like three years.
-No way.
-Yeah.
So this river area just came alive.
-There was nothing here.
-So growing up,
this was just trashy down here?
Nothing interesting.
I think it was gated, you know,
put away or something.
Look at that crystal.
Oh, there's more?
-Yeah.
-Oh, wow.
-This is insane.
-Yes.
-I've never seen this in a hotel.
-Yeah.
You've got to see this bar here.
It's called the Baobab.
It's an African-based bar, right?
It's exactly like a bar in Ghana.
Seriously.
This has to be worth…
I don't know my crystals, but it's what?
Ten feet tall?
-Yeah. I've been in this guy's house.
He has so many of these.
It makes no sense.
-The pterodactyl, right?
-Right.
I'm actually still on
the employee list here.
-Oh, you worked here?
-Yeah.
How much is a room a night here, roughly?
No less than $450 a night.
Valentine's, $800.
Wow. Look at this. This is so cool.
The money to build this thing out.
I mean, wow.
Come on in.
It's crazy, right?
-Yeah.
This place is better than a museum.
It is a museum.
Right?
So this town brings in
a lot of tourist dollars, right?
-A lot of people with money.
-Yeah.
These are my favorite statues, man.
They look so real. They're scary.
[Peter] Got the alligator there.
[JoJo] Look at that one, though.
And the bar.
It took me a long time to realize
that these were whips.
-They're whips?
-Yeah.
What was this? An old factory?
-Perfect question.
It was the electric company for the city.
The coolest place is in here
where they would dump the coal
to generate the energy.
So here are the levers that
ran the electricity through the whole city.
And I don't know how long
this place sat before this guy came in
and made a deal with the city,
Richard Kessler.
And what's really cool,
you see him here all the time.
-The owner?
-Yeah.
He lives, you know,
a quarter of a mile away.
[JoJo] How's it going?
Good, good, good.
-[Peter] How are you doing, sir?
-[muffled]
[Peter] Yeah, thanks.
You know if that's the famous shot
in New York City or that was here?
I got the camera that way, not on you.
[man] It's a 3D reproduction
of a 1920s photograph
of New York City construction workers.
-Good talking to you.
-Yeah, you too.
[JoJo] So, Peter,
here's a perfect example.
Most Black men his age
would never want to do this job.
They have to because
they don't have another choice,
but they would never want to do it
but here's the thing,
He's had a life.
He's had a profession.
He was a, you know, a photographer,
I'm sure, everywhere around the country.
So he doesn't mind
because he chooses to do it, I'm sure.
-Why wouldn't they want to do that?
Because they've never seen,
they've never had anything.
It's like you're just a servant.
That's all you've ever done.
That's all you've ever had
is to be a slave.
-Yeah, but you're saying
like everyone, not everyone.
The most of our people, yes.
There's a small, you know how small
a LeBron James is or an Oprah Winfrey?
Or Barack Obama?
I'm talking about
the multitude of people, man.
They're not enjoying this life.
They're not enjoying… And I'm…
I've traveled everywhere
in this world twice.
And I still understand and I still feel,
you know, what it feels like to be Black,
a n*****, a n*****, an African American.
Why do you say the N-bomb though?
Because, I mean, it's,
I want to show you this.
Yeah, let's…
It's culturally accepted,
but it's also,
I understand the insult behind it.
You know what I mean? I don't accept it.
You know, not everybody can…
I can say it to myself and people that have
gone through what I've gone through.
-Yeah, but it's such a bad word. Isn't it?
-[JoJo chuckles] It's a bad word.
But I just want you to understand
where I'm coming from.
Okay.
-I want to show you the coal.
-Oh, this is unbelievable.
[Peter]
"The Smokestack at Stone and Webster."
Be open, be open, be open, be open.
What's this in here, JoJo?
Secret rooms.
[JoJo's voice echoes] Aha!
It's really cool at night
because it's green.
The lights are green.
-I like the smell.
It's like fresh concrete.
-And everything echoes.
-Yeah, it's very clean.
Talk to me, JoJo, really loud.
[JoJo's voice echoes] Hello!
[chuckling]
-Well, my laugh sounds more…
-Woo!
[Peter] So if you're at the steakhouse,
this is your special room.
-Yeah.
-What is this?
-Yamacraw Village.
And you'll immediately know
that it's an Indian name,
this is Indian land.
-The poorest of the poor live here.
-There are no windows on these places.
They're boarded off. Why is that?
-Well, hopefully
nobody's living in there now.
-Okay.
-But you'll see the ones
that are without with the blinds.
See, somebody's living there.
I was actually with Hashmel,
with the city manager,
and they're going to do a total
revitalization of this place.
But you know what that means.
They're going to make these boutique
high-end apartments.
One party is saying,
hey, we want to give the people
an opportunity to move back into them.
And, of course, the other party is, like,
we can make a lot more money
by renting to students.
Is this Section 8 right now?
Yes, 100%.
And, you know, you have nothing but
new hotels going up around these places.
I'm just gonna
be that guy right now, JoJo.
Please.
No money comes into town,
no new hotels, no tourists.
What's the place going to be?
Um,
it'd be trash.
Right, no jobs at the hotels.
Right, right.
But… you know, it seems more like…
Again, that doesn't benefit
my people at all.
-Okay, when you say your people,
you can't speak for all your people, right?
-Um…
-Like, if I speak for me,
I don't say my people.
All the Whites feel the same as I do,
'cause they don't.
Well, when I say my people,
I definitely mean the majority.
Okay.
See the people that are catching the buses?
See the people that are
living paycheck to paycheck?
Blacks, Hispanics, Native Americans.
A lot of Whites, too, JoJo.
You got to understand that.
More Whites living paycheck
to paycheck than anyone else,
because there's more of them.
-But if we ride by here again…
-Yeah.
-You know what I mean?
-I gotcha.
That's what we're going to see.
-Right, and in the hotel,
the guests were mostly White.
Yeah, and they're doing well, and
the people that are picking up the bags,
the people that are cooking
and scraping the plates.
And they'll go,
"Oh, we're all here together."
Yeah, we are but no one's flourishing.
No one's having a good time,
except the people that are in power.
-So the crazy thing is,
this is right around the corner
from that section 8.
Yeah.
Like, Savannah is literally
block to block to block.
Yep. Yep.
-And then it's all of a sudden
a different world.
-Mm-hmm.
-What's this neighborhood?
-This is cool. This is Carver Village,
but this is West Savannah, Augusta Avenue.
This is a old jail.
It's actually probably still in play where
halfway house is what it is.
When you're about to get out of prison,
they bring you here.
-I don't know what we crossed,
the highway or something.
-Totally changed.
-We came across the ViDoc.
Okay, the ViDoc. Mm-hmm.
And so this is West Savannah.
And we're going towards the ports.
-Now, you're not gonna see,
with the houses, any refurbishing in it,
unless it's Black people refurbishing it.
-Okay, why is that? Too far away?
Yeah, they don't have any interest in it.
-So the gentrification
hasn't come out here yet.
-Right. And a lot of it is,
you can't change any of this stuff.
There's a lot of violence out here.
A lot of poverty out here.
And that's the biggest thing, man.
We've never,
not only have been taught to get out,
we've never
given an opportunity to get out.
-Okay, but…
And we can't turn around and say,
we'll look at you, because I'm one person.
I'm just saying, it comes from the parents,
and if the parents say, hey, let's get out
and go to the ocean this weekend,
then the kids will go with the parents
to the ocean that weekend.
It doesn't take much.
Some people are so poor
they can't do it. I get it.
But who's supposed to do it for them?
That's so funny you say that.
My priest used to take me to the beach.
-There you go.
-My priest used to take me to restaurants.
My priest used to buy me gifts
and tell me I was worth something.
My mother was there,
but my mother was working.
My mother was cleaning.
My mother was being
mom and dad at the same time.
-So it was these role models in your life
that exposed you to these things
that made you turn out
the way you turned out.
-Exactly.
-So I'm just saying…
If you bring kids into the world,
that's your responsibility.
Like, that's how I look at it.
If I bring kids into the world,
I'm not gonna rely on anyone else for that.
Hopefully there will be more people
that come into those kid's lives
that can be part of that.
But nobody owes anyone anything,
in my opinion.
I don't agree with that because
there's just been
so many people taken advantage of
and had things taken from them.
And again, we're talking about real estate.
We're talking about land.
And you'll be able to tell,
even the houses that have been fixed on,
you can tell they don't have
the best quality of work either.
You know, I'm doing what I can afford.
Or I'm doing it piece by piece.
Or look at that.
A lot of people are just like, man,
I can't afford to clean my yard every week.
Well,
you can clean your yard.
You don't have to pay anyone for that.
Yeah. Yeah.
So it's crazy to think
a lot of high-paying jobs right near this.
-The ports are very close.
-Mm-hmm.
We're rolling up on
the International Longshoremen Hall.
This is one of the few places where you can
have a record or even a federal record
and you can still find a job
if you know someone
and someone brings you in and make
a couple of hundred thousand dollars a year
by being a longshoreman.
-So you don't need
a college education for that?
You don't even need
a high school diploma to do this.
-And you can have a record.
Correct. Correct.
I think it's very dangerous work,
but it's worth it to…
-And you can make a couple hundred a year?
-Yeah.
Do you know how many guys
that have done that?
Yeah. I know that guy that
drives this Van right here.
-This one?
-Yeah.
You can see the money going into some of
these trucks, huh?
-Yeah, of course.
-The Harley Davidson Ford.
They all try to out-money each other.
My Uncle George,
he said he was coming out to meet me here.
[JoJo] What's up?
-[George] How are you?
-I had surgery.
-Can I hang this from your…
-Yeah, yeah, yeah. Okay.
So we're just doing a…
I'm with JoJo all day.
He's showing me the city,
showing me his story.
Yeah.
And then a big part of Savannah
right now is the ports, right?
-Yeah. Mm-hmm.
-Super active? What's going on here?
Oh, yeah, yeah. We…
I think we've got about
3,300 employees here, probably.
Are you operating one of those cranes,
or what do you do out there?
Oh, no, no. My job…
That's Georgia Ports over there.
-Okay.
But we just work under the crane
and beside the crane.
But we've got some new development
coming up where we're going…
ILA is going to be actually
operating the crane.
Container ships come in.
You're unloading.
-Yeah. Unloading. Right.
-It's hitting trucks.
Putting in trucks, flatbeds, or whatever.
It's a union job.
So you gotta to wait till…
-You get full bennies.
-Yeah.
-Retirement.
-Everything.
-How long you been here?
About 36 years.
Wow.
-So it's been good to you?
-Oh, yeah. I'm a supervisor. I'm a header.
So I don't have to, you know,
do all the hard, hard work.
I just pick up the men, go in,
placing them on ships, on jobs,
and bringing some up from the hall.
So we're hiring every day.
But, you know,
it just means that already in place,
already we have seniority.
We have seniority.
-JoJo was saying some guys
make upwards of $200,000 in here.
Yeah. Easy.
-Easy?
-Yeah.
Okay.
So you're saying you take your money here.
-You put enough time in. It's good money.
-Yeah.
-You're saying flipping real estate.
I buy it. Fix them up. Flip them.
You can to do real estate,
whatever you want to do.
Go and get you a dealership if you want.
A little small, mini dealership.
-Like car dealership?
-Yeah. Used cars.
Especially this time of year would be good
to go and do it now because income tax.
Okay. What about the young guys?
Are they getting into this?
Oh, yeah. Oh, yeah.
We got a whole lot of guys.
I'm picking up young guys now.
-Cool.
-I'm picking them to come and go to work.
I see a lot of women
like I've never seen before.
I haven't come down here in a long time.
Yeah. Women are getting into it
because  they can drive trucks.
They might not be able
to do like the lashing stuff
like on the ship
with the containers and stuff like that.
You know, all the manly stuff.
-Right.
But they can stand by the ship
and do ship side and get in trucks.
And they can also head too.
We got women that are supervisors.
They've been here a long time
and they come up through the rank
and say,
"Hey, you want to be a supervisor?"
Yeah. I wouldn't turn it down.
You're getting more money. [chuckles]
But the guys just hang out right here.
You know, they call.
-Yeah. What are they doing?
-Hanging out.
-For what? They're waiting for the ship?
Waiting on a job.
Waiting for the ship to come.
We have about four or five
checkouts during the day.
-Four or five.
-Okay.
5:00 in the morning,
6:00 in the morning, 8:00, 12:00.
-[JoJo] But you have to be here.
-You got to be here.
[Peter] This is your buddy, right?
-See, we wear the same shoes.
Of course it is.
-You work out here.
-I do.
Okay. What's going on with this?
-All right. So this is
the work order board for tonight.
These are the ships that are
gonna start working tonight.
And the way to read it is
CBO6 is container berth six.
-Okay.
-Right.
And the name of the ship is the Cisnes.
And these are the actual
supervisors or what we call headers.
That'll be
hiring the men to come work
in these particular crafts.
These four will be picking up two men,
which are the guys who go up on the ship
to handle anything dealing with the shoes.
The metal shoes, the locking devices
that goes in the bottom of the containers.
-Okay.
To keep the container secure
when they're on the top of the ship.
These next four
will be hiring six men each,
which are lashers.
That's primarily what I do.
We're the guys that go up on the ship
to disconnect the containers.
These four here are hiring
seven truck drivers.
So these seven men or women
will all be driving jockey trucks
that take the containers
from the ship out to the stacks.
So the basic mechanics, this is one of
the biggest ports in the country, right?
That's right.
How many ships come in in a day, roughly?
Anywhere from nine on up on an average day.
-Without you guys,
everything stops in this country.
-Everything we use.
-That's right.
We're the first to touch the cargo.
Absolutely.
So it's a very important thing.
It's extremely important.
-Do you guys feel pride in your job?
-Absolutely.
We're the second largest
revenue generator in the state
behind the Atlanta-Hartsfield Airport.
-No way. Wow.
-Absolutely.
So it's a brotherhood.
You know everyone?
Yeah, pretty much. Family.
Thanks for your time. Anytime, man.
Catch me a little early next time and
I'll make it happen. We'll get you inside.
-Thank you.
Okay, what I asked you before
off camera was no Hispanics here,
no Whites here, only Black working, right?
I haven't seen one pass through yet.
Right. Okay, so what's that?
You can see what's funny.
Like these guys, he's going to work.
You know, but he's got a leather,
clean white leather jacket on.
-Yeah, he looks spiffy.
But see, those are the guys
that he's talking about the headers
and you can tell they're not doing
any work, just pointing fingers.
And then when it's all
said and done, they'll go out
and either go home and go to bed
or come out here and goof off.
But the guys that are really doing the work
are the guys that you see dressed to work.
Okay, so why are there
no White dudes here or no Hispanics?
Because they decide who works there or not.
-You know what I mean?
-Okay.
If I wanted to work, I would strictly
have to go through my uncle
or go through James.
-Okay, so there's
some nepotism going on here.
-Right, absolutely.
-Okay.
And it's one of
the best gigs in town, right?
Yeah. Again, especially if
you've got a criminal record
or if you, you know,
don't have an education.
But James is the cream of the crop here
because he has both.
You know, he's very well spoken,
has education, you know.
Yeah.
And then you get all these food tents.
So people are just spending
a lot of time out here.
Yeah.
JoJo, this is just
right out of the city basically.
-Right.
Some of the big money
will have their homes out here, right?
15 minutes outside of the city.
-15 minutes.
-This is old money.
[Peter] Guys,
we're doing our best here.
The sun is going down, but we'll be able
to show a little bit at least.
[JoJo] The people that are living here now
have gotten these homes from their parents.
-Some cool places out here.
-Yeah, we're going to come up
to a gate pretty soon.
-You have all these swamps
and that limits development.
[JoJo] They don't want development here.
They want to be alone,
they want to be by themselves.
-Right.
-They want you to have to be able
to call before you just show up.
-Check it out, JoJo.
-They don't seem that afraid of people.
Yeah, they're really,
they're people deer, that's for sure.
Look at these guys.
[JoJo] Like you got some food, buddy,
or what?
-All right, JoJo,
we ran out of light, but thank you.
Appreciate it.
-Good tour today.
-Absolutely.
And off camera you were saying,
you were talking about your foundation.
There you go.
I want the audience to know
what you're doing.
Well, we've got the JoJo Jones Foundation.
If you want to check us out,
it's www.jojojonesfoundation.com.
Definitely check us out.
See what we have for young people.
What comes with young people
comes parenting,
and family, and so on, and so forth.
So our main goal is learning
to talk to each other.
The scripture talks about
words being a double-edged sword.
And it's all about
how we connect with each other.
It's all about how we talk to each other.
It's even about how we sing to each other.
And that even comes back to our music
and the way we take care of people
through rhythm and rhyme.
So check us out
and you'll see exactly what we mean
when it comes to communication,
verbal communication
and non-verbal communication.
Awesome, JoJo.
And that was not your normal Savannah tour.
So thank you for that.
I think we saw a lot of different slices.
Unfortunately, we can't get into
the hamstring pulling
and the cigarette smoking
and the lack of understanding.
My hamstrings
definitely feel pulled right now.
-But it was worth it.
-I'll be laughing in my sleep about that.
Absolutely.
Guys, thanks for coming on that journey.
Until the next one.
Thank you, guys.
[country music]